Francis: They thought that I could see.
I said,”no, no, no.
I'm deaf and blind. I can't really see.”
And they just kept thinking,
“how, how is this possible?”
And I just would encourage them.
[music plays]
Tony: I asked the doctor,
“am I going to become blind?”
At which the doctor said,
“yes, absolutely.”
Chris: It was hard to accept the losses,
especially my hearing.
Rafael: Colors didn’t seem normal
to me as they used to,
they began to blur together
Francis: And to be honest with you,
I couldn't accept myself as a deaf and blind.
[music plays]
Rafael: So I went home,
found some paper, found a pencil,
and started drawing what I saw.
Tony: He put that old bike up on a bike stand.
I made the necessary repairs.
I called Paul over, at which point he tested
the bikeand did an inspection and said
that everything was great.
He gave me a thumbs up,
which I felt tactically,
and I knew I had passed his test.
Francis: They didn't know that at the time
I was deaf and blind until
they met me and they said,
‘”wow, you're deaf and blind?
You could act? What?”
[music plays]
Rafael: My name is Raphael Morales.
Tony: I'm Tony.
Tony Giordano.
Chris: My name is Chris Cook.
I'm an artist primarily working in clay.
Francis: My name is Dr. Francis.
I am a pastor to a deaf and blind
ASL congregation.
Rafael: I don't think that I need to see
what something exactly
looks like for me to try to draw it.
And I know I'm an artist
and my art has changed.
Francis: Okay. Praise God.
I am a deaf and blind person,
and that's okay.
And I'm happy with who I am.
And I can teach. I can still tell stories.
Tony: Thinking about how I had to rely on others
and how emotional that made me.
I've now been able to put that aside.
I've been able to gain independence.
[music ends]